README.md, before:

# Google Cloud Platform Go Samples

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/GoogleCloudPlatform/golang-samples.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/GoogleCloudPlatform/golang-samples)

This repository holds sample code written in Go that demonstrates the Google
Cloud Platform.

Some samples have accompanying guides on
[cloud.google.com](https://cloud.google.com). See respective README files for
details.

## Contributing changes.

Entirely new samples are not accepted. Bug fixes are welcome, either as pull
requests or as GitHub issues.

See [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for details on how to contribute.

## Licensing

Code in this repository is licensed under the Apache 2.0. See [LICENSE](LICENSE).

<!---
go list -f '|[{{.Dir}}]({{.Dir}})|{{.Doc}}|' ./... | egrep -v '/(internal|docs/appengine)/' | sed -e "s^$PWD/^^g" >> README.md
--->
## Index

Note: samples under `docs/appengine` are not shown because they mostly do not run, they are just code snippets.

|Path|Description|
|---|---|
|[appengine/bigquery](appengine/bigquery)|This App Engine application uses its default service account to list all the BigQuery datasets accessible via the BigQuery REST API.|
|[datastore/tasks](datastore/tasks)|A simple command-line task list manager to demonstrate using the google.golang.org/cloud/datastore package.|
|[docs/error-reporting/fluent](docs/error-reporting/fluent)|Sample fluent demonstrates integration of fluent and Cloud Error reporting.|
|[docs/managed_vms/analytics](docs/managed_vms/analytics)|Sample analytics demonstrates Google Analytics calls from App Engine flexible environment.|
|[docs/managed_vms/cloudsql](docs/managed_vms/cloudsql)|Sample cloudsql demonstrates usage of Cloud SQL from App Engine flexible environment.|
|[docs/managed_vms/datastore](docs/managed_vms/datastore)|Sample datastore demonstrates use of the google.golang.org/cloud/datastore package from App Engine flexible.|
|[docs/managed_vms/endpoints](docs/managed_vms/endpoints)|Sample endpoints demonstrates a Cloud Endpoints API.|
|[docs/managed_vms/endpoints/client](docs/managed_vms/endpoints/client)|Command client performs authenticated requests against an Endpoints API server.|
|[docs/managed_vms/helloworld](docs/managed_vms/helloworld)|Sample helloworld is a basic App Engine flexible app.|
|[docs/managed_vms/mailgun](docs/managed_vms/mailgun)|Sample mailgun is a demonstration on sending an e-mail from App Engine flexible environment.|
|[docs/managed_vms/mailjet](docs/managed_vms/mailjet)|Sample mailjet is a demonstration on sending an e-mail from App Engine flexible environment.|
|[docs/managed_vms/memcache](docs/managed_vms/memcache)|Sample memcache demonstrates use of a memcached client from App Engine flexible environment.|
|[docs/managed_vms/pubsub](docs/managed_vms/pubsub)|Sample pubsub demonstrates use of the google.golang.org/cloud/pubsub package from App Engine flexible environment.|
|[docs/managed_vms/sendgrid](docs/managed_vms/sendgrid)|Sample sendgrid is a demonstration on sending an e-mail from App Engine flexible environment.|
|[docs/managed_vms/static_files](docs/managed_vms/static_files)|Package static demonstrates a static file handler for App Engine flexible environment.|
|[docs/managed_vms/storage](docs/managed_vms/storage)|Sample storage demonstrates use of the google.golang.org/cloud/storage package from App Engine flexible environment.|
|[docs/managed_vms/tiny](docs/managed_vms/tiny)|Sample tiny demonstrates overall program structure: a main package with a main function that calls appengine.Main.|
|[docs/managed_vms/twilio](docs/managed_vms/twilio)|Sample twilio demonstrates sending and receiving SMS, receiving calls via Twilio from App Engine flexible environment.|
|[docs/sql/listinstances](docs/sql/listinstances)|Sample listinstances lists the Cloud SQL instances for a given project ID.|
|[docs/storage/listbuckets](docs/storage/listbuckets)|Command listbuckets lists the Google Cloud buckets for a given project ID.|
|[getting-started/bookshelf](getting-started/bookshelf)|Package bookshelf contains the bookshelf database and app configuration, shared by the main app module and the worker module.|
|[getting-started/bookshelf/app](getting-started/bookshelf/app)|Sample bookshelf is a fully-featured app demonstrating several Google Cloud APIs, including Datastore, Cloud SQL, Cloud Storage.|
|[getting-started/bookshelf/pubsub_worker](getting-started/bookshelf/pubsub_worker)|Sample pubsub_worker demonstrates the use of the Cloud Pub/Sub API to communicate between two modules.|
|[getting-started/helloworld](getting-started/helloworld)|Sample helloworld is a basic App Engine flexible app.|
|[language/analyze](language/analyze)|Command analyze performs sentiment, entity, and syntax analysis on a string of text via the Cloud Natural Language API.|
|[monitoring/custommetric](monitoring/custommetric)|Command custommetric creates a custom metric and writes TimeSeries value to it.|
|[monitoring/listresources](monitoring/listresources)|Command listresources lists the Google Cloud Monitoring v3 Environment against an authenticated user.|
|[speech/transcript](speech/transcript)|Command transcript reads an audio file and outputs the transcript for it.|
|[vision/label](vision/label)|Command label uses the Vision API's label detection capabilities to find a label based on an image's content.|

Commit message:

speech/transcript: rename to caption

README.md, after:

# Google Cloud Platform Go Samples

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/GoogleCloudPlatform/golang-samples.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/GoogleCloudPlatform/golang-samples)

This repository holds sample code written in Go that demonstrates the Google
Cloud Platform.

Some samples have accompanying guides on
[cloud.google.com](https://cloud.google.com). See respective README files for
details.

## Contributing changes.

Entirely new samples are not accepted. Bug fixes are welcome, either as pull
requests or as GitHub issues.

See [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for details on how to contribute.

## Licensing

Code in this repository is licensed under the Apache 2.0. See [LICENSE](LICENSE).

<!---
go list -f '|[{{.Dir}}]({{.Dir}})|{{.Doc}}|' ./... | egrep -v '/(internal|docs/appengine)/' | sed -e "s^$PWD/^^g" >> README.md
--->
## Index

Note: samples under `docs/appengine` are not shown because they mostly do not run, they are just code snippets.

|Path|Description|
|---|---|
|[appengine/bigquery](appengine/bigquery)|This App Engine application uses its default service account to list all the BigQuery datasets accessible via the BigQuery REST API.|
|[bigquery/syncquery](bigquery/syncquery)|Command syncquery queries a Google BigQuery dataset.|
|[datastore/tasks](datastore/tasks)|A simple command-line task list manager to demonstrate using the google.golang.org/cloud/datastore package.|
|[docs/error-reporting/fluent](docs/error-reporting/fluent)|Sample fluent demonstrates integration of fluent and Cloud Error reporting.|
|[docs/managed_vms/analytics](docs/managed_vms/analytics)|Sample analytics demonstrates Google Analytics calls from App Engine flexible environment.|
|[docs/managed_vms/cloudsql](docs/managed_vms/cloudsql)|Sample cloudsql demonstrates usage of Cloud SQL from App Engine flexible environment.|
|[docs/managed_vms/datastore](docs/managed_vms/datastore)|Sample datastore demonstrates use of the google.golang.org/cloud/datastore package from App Engine flexible.|
|[docs/managed_vms/endpoints](docs/managed_vms/endpoints)|Sample endpoints demonstrates a Cloud Endpoints API.|
|[docs/managed_vms/endpoints/client](docs/managed_vms/endpoints/client)|Command client performs authenticated requests against an Endpoints API server.|
|[docs/managed_vms/helloworld](docs/managed_vms/helloworld)|Sample helloworld is a basic App Engine flexible app.|
|[docs/managed_vms/mailgun](docs/managed_vms/mailgun)|Sample mailgun is a demonstration on sending an e-mail from App Engine flexible environment.|
|[docs/managed_vms/mailjet](docs/managed_vms/mailjet)|Sample mailjet is a demonstration on sending an e-mail from App Engine flexible environment.|
|[docs/managed_vms/memcache](docs/managed_vms/memcache)|Sample memcache demonstrates use of a memcached client from App Engine flexible environment.|
|[docs/managed_vms/pubsub](docs/managed_vms/pubsub)|Sample pubsub demonstrates use of the google.golang.org/cloud/pubsub package from App Engine flexible environment.|
|[docs/managed_vms/sendgrid](docs/managed_vms/sendgrid)|Sample sendgrid is a demonstration on sending an e-mail from App Engine flexible environment.|
|[docs/managed_vms/static_files](docs/managed_vms/static_files)|Package static demonstrates a static file handler for App Engine flexible environment.|
|[docs/managed_vms/storage](docs/managed_vms/storage)|Sample storage demonstrates use of the google.golang.org/cloud/storage package from App Engine flexible environment.|
|[docs/managed_vms/tiny](docs/managed_vms/tiny)|Sample tiny demonstrates overall program structure: a main package with a main function that calls appengine.Main.|
|[docs/managed_vms/twilio](docs/managed_vms/twilio)|Sample twilio demonstrates sending and receiving SMS, receiving calls via Twilio from App Engine flexible environment.|
|[docs/sql/listinstances](docs/sql/listinstances)|Sample listinstances lists the Cloud SQL instances for a given project ID.|
|[docs/storage/listbuckets](docs/storage/listbuckets)|Command listbuckets lists the Google Cloud buckets for a given project ID.|
|[getting-started/bookshelf](getting-started/bookshelf)|Package bookshelf contains the bookshelf database and app configuration, shared by the main app module and the worker module.|
|[getting-started/bookshelf/app](getting-started/bookshelf/app)|Sample bookshelf is a fully-featured app demonstrating several Google Cloud APIs, including Datastore, Cloud SQL, Cloud Storage.|
|[getting-started/bookshelf/pubsub_worker](getting-started/bookshelf/pubsub_worker)|Sample pubsub_worker demonstrates the use of the Cloud Pub/Sub API to communicate between two modules.|
|[getting-started/helloworld](getting-started/helloworld)|Sample helloworld is a basic App Engine flexible app.|
|[language/analyze](language/analyze)|Command analyze performs sentiment, entity, and syntax analysis on a string of text via the Cloud Natural Language API.|
|[monitoring/custommetric](monitoring/custommetric)|Command custommetric creates a custom metric and writes TimeSeries value to it.|
|[monitoring/listresources](monitoring/listresources)|Command listresources lists the Google Cloud Monitoring v3 Environment against an authenticated user.|
|[speech/caption](speech/caption)|Command caption reads an audio file and outputs the transcript for it.|
|[vision/label](vision/label)|Command label uses the Vision API's label detection capabilities to find a label based on an image's content.|
